# Instructions

## CLIs

This python (3.13) repo uses the astral.sh stack along other CLIs:

- `devcontainer` - environment isolation
- `just` - common repo commands management
- `pre-commit` - triggers all of the following CLIs
- `uv` - venv and CLIs management
- `ruff` - format and lint
- `ty` - type checking
- `pytest` - testing
- `tox` - tests automation
- `typos` - spell checking
- `commitlint` - conventional commits adherence
- `pysentry` - dependency security
- `osv-scanner` - general security
- `claude` - for an objective AI review
- `lintok` - file size linter
- `ties` - file-to-file sync with transformations
- `yamlfmt` - yaml format and lint
- `biomejs` - json format and lint
- `dockerfmt` - dockerfile format and lint
- `rumdl` - markdown format and lint
- `lychee` - broken link detection
- `taplo` - general toml format and lint
- `pyproject-fmt` - pyproject.toml format and lint
- `tox-toml-fmt` - tox.toml format and lint

## Git

Commit messages must follow the conventional commits standard like so:  

```text
`<type>`(`<scope>`): `<up-to-60-characters>`  
`<optional-details>`  
Assisted-by: `<name-of-code-assistant>`  
```

## Just Pre-Commit

`just pre-commit` is configured to run all CLIs (including tests).  
To run, simply:

```shell
just p
```

With no additional options.  
You may also use `just pa` to run on all files (not only changes).
Before editing anything, **ALWAYS** start with `just p`.  
**NEVER** run a CLI directly before `just p` first.  
Running a CLI directly is a last resort.  

## Code

Follow the Test-Driven-Developement (TDD) methodology.

When reading code, files or terminal outputs - try to read
necessary lines and information only, to reduce token usage.
You may use `grep`, `sed`, `head`, `tail`, `jq`, `xargs` and so on.

Try to keep files shorter than 500 lines.

Any code or file significantly generated or edited by you
must have at least one inline/header comment:  

```text
Generated by `<name-of-code-assistant>`
```

or  

```text
Edited by `<name-of-code-assistant>`  
```

## Edit Attempts

Each sequence of edits and code generation without
`just p` or `just pa` is an Edit Attempt.  
Edit Attempts should be atomic, focused and encapsulated.  

Before any Edit Attempt:

- a descriptive line:

  ```text
  `[EDIT]` `<description>`: `STARTING`  
  ```

After any Edit Attempt:  

- `just p` or `just pa` (to `git add .` & `pre-commit` in a single command)
- a summary line:

  ```text
  `[EDIT]` `<description>`: `<status>`  
  ```

  where `<status>` is `SUCCESS` or `FAILED`
